[OKTA-849174] group.source.id (#5269)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/reference/okta-expression-language-in-identity-engine/index.md

| user.created         | ZonedDateTime | 2015-07-30T23:58:32.000Z   |
| user.firstName       | String        | "John"                     |
| user.lastName        | String        | "Doe"                      |

> | user.email           | String        | "<john.doe@okta.com>"        |

Author: ```suggestion
| user.email           | String        | "john.doe@okta.com"        |
```

|                                         |                                               |             | `'This is a test'.contains('Test')`              | False            |
| `$string_object.substringBefore`        | (String searchString)                         | String      | `user.profile.email.substringBefore('@')`        | "john.doe"       |
| `$string_object.substringAfter`         | (String searchString)                         | String      | `user.profile.email.substringAfter('@')`         | "okta.com"       |

> |                                         |                                               |             | `user.profile.email.substringAfter('.')`         | "<doe@okta.com>"   |

Author: ```suggestion
|                                         |                                               |             | `user.profile.email.substringAfter('.')`         | "doe@okta.com"   |
```

| Group ID                 | Group name               | Group type            | Group source ID |
| --------                 | -----------              | -----------           | ----------- |
| 00gak46y5hydV6NdM0g4     | Everyone                 | BUILT_IN              | 0oazmqPIbHiVJBG4C0g3 |
| 00g1emaKYZTWRYYRRTSK     | West Coast Users         | OKTA_GROUP            | 0a81509410bdf807f680 |
| 00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4     | West Coast Admins        | OKTA_GROUP            | 0a03d062d3918fd34742 |
| 00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3     | Engineering Users        | APP_GROUP             | 0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d |
| 00gnftmgQxC2L19j6I9c     | Engineering Users        | APP_GROUP             | 0a61c8dacb58b3c0716e |

Group functions take in a list of search criteria as input. Each search criterion is a key-value pair:<br>
**Key:** Specifies the matching property. Currently supported keys are: `group.id`, `group.source.id`, `group.type`, and `group.profile.name`.<br>
**Value:** Specifies a list of matching values.

The `group.id`, `group.source.id`, and `group.type` keys can match values that are exact.

> The `group.profile.name` key supports the operators `EXACT` and `STARTS_WITH` to identify exact matches or matches that include the value. If no operator is specified, the expression uses `STARTS_WITH`. These operators can't be used with `group.id`, `group.source.id`, or `group.type`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `group.profile.name` key supports the operators `EXACT` and `STARTS_WITH` to identify exact matches or matches that include the value. If no operator is specified, the expression uses `STARTS_WITH`. You can't use these operators with `group.id`, `group.source.id`, or `group.type`.
```

Use `group.source.id` when you need to disambiguate between groups that have the same group name. For example, if you're searching for app groups that start with "Admin" from a given app instance then you can use `group.source.id` to filter multiple groups across the different app group sources.

| Function                 | Return type | Example                                                                                                         | Output explanation                                                                        | Example Output |
| ---------------          | ----------- | -------                                                                                                         | -----                                                                           | ---- |

> | `user.getGroups`         | Array       | `user.getGroups({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3'}}, {'group.profile.name': 'West Coast.*'})`                | A list of groups with the group ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` and the group name that starts with `West Coast`                                                                | {} |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `user.getGroups`         | Array       | `user.getGroups({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3'}}, {'group.profile.name': 'West Coast.*'})`                | A list of groups with group ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` and a group name that starts with `West Coast`                                                                | {} |
```

> |                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP'}}, {'group.profile.name': {'Everyone', 'West Coast Admins'}})`     | A list of groups that are of the type `OKTA_GROUP` and the group name starts with `Everyone` or `West Coast Admins` | A list of user groups that contains the groups with ID `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP'}}, {'group.profile.name': {'Everyone', 'West Coast Admins'}})`     | A list of groups that are of the type `OKTA_GROUP` and the group name starts with `Everyone` or `West Coast Admins` | A list of user groups that contains groups with ID `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`  |
```

|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.profile.name': 'East Coast.*'})`                                                        | A list of groups that start with the name `East Coast` | {}                                                                              |

> |                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP', 'APP_GROUP'}})`                                                   | A list of user groups that contains the groups with IDs `00g1emaKYZTWRYYRRTSK`, `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`, and `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3`  |

Reviewer 2: Can we add the output explanation for this one?

> |                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP', 'APP_GROUP'}})`                                                   | A list of groups that are of the type `OKTA_GROUP` or `APP_GROUP` | A list of user groups that contains the groups with IDs `00g1emaKYZTWRYYRRTSK`, `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`, `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3`, and `00gnftmgQxC2L19j6I9c`  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP', 'APP_GROUP'}})`                                                   | A list of groups that are of the type `OKTA_GROUP` or `APP_GROUP` | A list of user groups that contains groups with IDs `00g1emaKYZTWRYYRRTSK`, `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`, `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3`, and `00gnftmgQxC2L19j6I9c`  |
```

> |                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.source.id': '0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d'} , {'group.profile.name': {'Engineering Users'}} )` | A filtered list of user groups that contains the groups that start with the name `Engineering Users` and has the source ID `0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d` | A list of user groups that contains the groups with ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.source.id': '0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d'} , {'group.profile.name': {'Engineering Users'}} )` | A filtered list of user groups that contains groups that start with the name `Engineering Users` and that has the source ID `0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d` | A list of user groups that contains groups with ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` |
```

| `user.isMemberOf`        | Boolean     | `user.isMemberOf({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3', '00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4'}}, {'group.type': 'APP_GROUP'})`  | Whether the user is a member of one of the groups with ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` or `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4` and the group is of type `APP_GROUP`   | True        |
|                          |             | `user.isMemberOf({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3', '00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4'}}, {'group.type': 'BUILT_IN'})`   | Whether the user is a member of one of the groups with ID `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3` or `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4` and the group is of type `BUILT_IN`   | False |
|                          |             | `user.isMemberOf({'group.profile.name': 'West Coast', 'operator': 'STARTS_WITH' })`   | Whether the user is a member of a group whose name starts with `West Coast` | True |
|                          |             | `user.isMemberOf({'group.profile.name': 'West Coast', 'operator': 'EXACT' })`   | Whether the user is a member of a group whose exact name is `West Coast` | False |

> |                          |             | `user.isMemberOf({'group.source.id': '0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d'} , {'group.profile.name': {'Engineering Users'}} )` | Whether the user is a member of a group whose source ID is `0aae4be2456eb62f7c3d` and the group name has `Engineering Users` | True |

Reviewer 2: the group name starts with Engineering users

> | 00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3     | Engineering Users        | APP_GROUP             |

Reviewer 2: Can we update this table to also include Group source ID? And then have an App Group from a different source that is also called "Engineering Users" which can then be used in the examples below? 
As is right now, all the existing examples are based on of this table and then the example for source ID is based off a hypothetical and I think we should be consistent.

Group functions take in a list of search criteria as input. Each search criterion is a key-value pair:<br>
**Key:** Specifies the matching property. Currently supported keys are: `group.id`, `group.source.id`, `group.type`, and `group.profile.name`.<br>
**Value:** Specifies a list of matching values.

> The `group.id` and `group.type` keys can match values that are exact.

Reviewer 2: I assume group.source.id is can also only match values exactly but we can confirm with dev.

> The `group.profile.name` key supports the operators `EXACT` and `STARTS_WITH` to identify exact matches or matches that include the value. If no operator is specified, the expression uses `STARTS_WITH`. These operators can't be used with `group.id` or `group.type`.

Reviewer 2: Add that it also can't be used with group source id

| `user.getGroups`         | Array       | `user.getGroups({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3'}}, {'group.profile.name': 'West Coast.*'})`                | {}                                                                              |
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP'}}, {'group.profile.name': {'Everyone', 'West Coast Admins'}})`     | A list of user groups that contains the groups with ID `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`  |
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.profile.name': 'East Coast.*'})`                                                        | {}                                                                              |
|                          |             | `user.getGroups({'group.type': {'OKTA_GROUP', 'APP_GROUP'}})`                                                   | A list of user groups that contains the groups with IDs `00g1emaKYZTWRYYRRTSK`, `00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4`, and `00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3`  |

> | | | `user.getGroups({'group.source.id': '0oazmqPIbHiVJBG4C0g3'} , {'group.profile.name': {'Admins'}} ).![name]` | A filtered list of user groups that contains the groups that start with the name "Admins" and has the source ID '0oazmqPIbHiVJBG4C0g3' |

Reviewer 2: 1. grammatically should be "A filtered list of user groups that contains the groups that start with the name "Admins" and **have** the source ID '0oazmqPIbHiVJBG4C0g3' but let's update this to follow the same format as the other examples and be based on the table.
2. let's confirm with eng that they built the ![name] functionality in ELV3, none of the other examples are showing it. If they did build the ![name] functionality then we should add something in the section above to explain how it works
3. the formatting looks a little off in the preview - it looks like you used `'` instead of `

Author: Talke to Clara, and we'll be handling #2 in a separate ticket after she talks to engineering. For now, we'll change the example slightly to better fit the example.

| `user.isMemberOf`        | Boolean     | `user.isMemberOf({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3', '00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4'}}, {'group.type': 'APP_GROUP'})`  | True                                                                            |

> |                          |             | `user.isMemberOf({'group.id': {'00gjitX9HqABSoqTB0g3', '00garwpuyxHaWOkdV0g4'}}, {'group.type': 'BUILT_IN'})`   | False |

Reviewer 2: Can we add an example using our new function here as well? According to the eng 1-pager it should work with the `isMemberOf` function too!
